# Writing Exercise

In *Now You See It*, Cathy Davidson argues (among other things) that our current educational system is designed to train minds to operate within a largely industrial system that has since been largely replaced. She argues that we need to wholly rethink how we educate students if we want to prepare them to thrive within current—not future, but current—intellectual, economic, and social structures (a similar argument to that made by Northeastern's own president, Joseph Aoun, in his new book [*Robot Proof: Education in the Age of Artificial Intelligence*](https://www.amazon.com/Robot-Proof-Higher-Education-Artificial-Intelligence/dp/0262037289/ref=asap_bc?ie=UTF8). However, many of the most loudly touted educational reformations, such as MOOCs or laptops in the classroom, have seen decidedly mixed results, and have largely not brought about the revolutions their backers claimed were imminent. 

Today we'll work in small groups. We will pretend that your groups have been charged with restructuring the classroom to better meet the needs of today's students. Since college is your most immediate educational context, you can focus on the college classroom as you have experienced it. You probably can't fix everything that needs fixing within the space of this class period, so let's focus even more narrowly on aspects of the classroom related to the primary topics in our reading from *Now You See It*: attention, focus, multitasking, and/or technology. How might classrooms be rethought to better meet students' needs in these areas? Spend some time with that question, though it might be relatively easy—I suspect you will have lots of ideas about how classrooms fail to meet your needs. The next question is harder: how would you rethink classes to help today's students develop the skills and proficiencies they will need to thrive in the current world after graduation. Another way to put this might be: what kinds of attention blindness might college help students identify and address, and how could classrooms achieve this?